Add FastAPI Workers and Workers AI tutorial (#20653)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/workers-ai/tutorials/create-fastapi-python-worker-and-workers-ai.mdx

---

import { WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

In this tutorial, you will learn how to create and deploy a FastAPI application on Cloudflare Workers and leverage Workers AI to generate creative, AI-powered images of alternate endings for your favorite shows or movies. By the end of this guide, you will learn how to configure FastAPI project for Cloudflare Workers, utilize a text generation model from Workers AI to create an image prompt based on user input, generate the alternate ending image using an image generation model, and finally, deploy your application to Cloudflare Workers.

## Prerequisites

You will need:

- Cloudflare account with Python packages support enabled.
- [Node.js](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm/)
- [Wrangler CLI](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/) installed on your local machine

The entire codebase (including frontend) is available here: https://github.com/HackyRoot/what-if-ai. Please feel free to refer to this.

## 1. Create FastAPI project

First of all, you need to structure your project with the following files and configurations:

### 1.1 FastAPI Code

> Create the main application file (main.py) in the src folder:

Reviewer: Maybe:
```suggestion
Make a `src` folder and create the worker entrypoint `src/main.py` with the following contents:
```

This file will contain your FastAPI application code.

```python
from fastapi import FastAPI, HTTPException, Request

app = FastAPI()

async def on_fetch(request, env):
   import asgi
   return await asgi.fetch(app, request, env)

@app.get("/")
async def root():
   return {"message": "Hello World"}
```

> Inside on_fetch, asgi.fetch(app, request, env) processes the incoming request using your FastAPI app. The asgi module facilitates the communication between the Worker environment and your ASGI application.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
Inside `on_fetch`, `asgi.fetch(app, request, env)` processes the incoming request using your FastAPI app. The asgi module facilitates the communication between the Worker environment and your ASGI application.
```

The rest of your FastAPI routes and logic will be defined as usual, like the example `@app.get("/")` route which returns a JSON response.

### 1.2 Define project dependencies (requirements.txt) at the root:

Create a new file at the root and name it requirements.txt. This file lists the Python packages that your FastAPI application depends on. Cloudflare Workers using Pyodide have support for a set of [built-in packages](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/languages/python/packages/#supported-packages). If a package is not supported, you can explore [vendoring options](https://github.com/mikenomitch/python-worker-packages-example?tab=readme-ov-file#using-vendored-packages).

```text
fastapi
httpx
pydantic
```

This requirements.txt specifies that your project requires fastapi, httpx, and pydantic. These are common packages used in FastAPI applications for building APIs, making HTTP requests, and data validation, respectively.

### 1.3 Configure the Cloudflare Worker (wrangler.toml):

> Create a new file wrangler.toml at the root and paste the content below in that file. This file configures how your Cloudflare Worker is built and deployed.

Reviewer: Maybe:
```suggestion
Create a new file `wrangler.toml` at the root. This file configures how your Cloudflare Worker is built and deployed. Paste the following contents in that file.
```

```
name = 'what-if-ai-backend'
main = "src/main.py"
compatibility_flags = ["python_workers"]

> compatibility_date = "2023-12-18"

Reviewer: Should we use a more recent date?

       """
```

- This prompt act as a system prompt, which sets the context, role, and desired behavior for the text generation AI model. In this case, it instructs the model to act as a "cinematic prompt engineer".

### 2.2 Create a Pydantic model for the text generation request (main.py):

Next, within your main.py file, define a Pydantic model. This model will structure the data you expect to receive from the user for generating the alternate ending description.

```python
from pydantic import BaseModel

class GenerateTextRequest(BaseModel):
   content_name: str
   ending_description: str

```

- The GenerateTextRequest class inherits from BaseModel, defining a data structure with two fields:
- content_name: A string representing the name of the show or movie.
- ending_description: A string containing the user's desired changes to the ending.
- Pydantic will handle data validation and serialization for requests adhering to this model.

### 2.3 Make an API call to Workers AI:

Now, within your main.py file, you'll need to define the logic to interact with a Workers AI model for text generation.

> First, specify the model you intend to use. You can find a list of [available models](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers-ai/models/) on the Cloudflare Workers AI platform. For this usecase, we will be using `llama-3-8b-instruct` model from Meta.

Author: Fixed

```python
async def generate_text_message(content_name: str, ending_description: str, req: Request):
    messages = [
       {"role": "system", "content": text_generation_system_prompt},
       {"role": "user", "content": f"""
           Content Name: {content_name}
           Alternative Ending: {ending_description}"""}
   ]
```

When making requests to the Workers AI REST API, you need to provide your [Cloudflare API Key](https://developers.cloudflare.com/fundamentals/api/get-started/create-token/) and [Cloudflare Account ID](https://developers.cloudflare.com/fundamentals/setup/find-account-and-zone-ids/#find-account-id-workers-and-pages) for authentication.

A secure practice is to store these sensitive credentials as environment variables and access them within your Python Worker. You can typically access environment variables through the Request object in a Python Worker environment like this:

```python
    env = req.scope['env']
    CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY = env.CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY
    CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID = env.CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID

> ```

Reviewer: Should we be using a binding for this? I think we shouldn't have to manipulate api keys at runtime. @dom96 do you know what the best practices here would look like?

Reviewer 2: Where does `req.scope['env']` get its env vars from?

The best practices here are to use Secrets: https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/configuration/secrets/.

I think the best option may be to use the importable env:

```
from workers import import_from_javascript
cloudflare_workers = import_from_javascript("cloudflare:workers")
cloudflare_workers.env.CLOUDFLARE_API_KEY
```

Reviewer: This should be equivalent, `req.scope['env']` is the real env. So I guess that's a +1 for this approach.

Reviewer: But importable env would work well too.

Author: Thanks @hoodmane and @dom96 for the thoughtful feedback. I considered using bindings for this tutorial and even discussed it with @mikenomitch, who kindly provided a code snippet showing how it could be implemented.

```
messages = pyodide.ffi.to_js(
    [
        { "role": "system", "content": "You are a funny and creative joke teller." },
        { "role": "user", "content": "Tell a joke about Cloudflare." },
    ],
    dict_converter=js.Object.fromEntries,  # Note: To use messages via javascript API, we must convert messages to array of objects.
)
 
job = {
    "messages": messages,
    "seed": 1739384258,
    "max_tokens": 4096,
    "temperature": 0.7,
    "top_p": 0.7,
    "repetition_penalty": 1.0,
    "frequency_penalty": 0.0,
    "presence_penalty": 0.0
}
 
resp = await env.AI.run(
    '@cf/meta/llama-3.1-8b-instruct-fast',
    **job,
)
 
resp_json = resp.to_py()  # JsProxy -> dict
 
js.console.log('messages_response =', json.dumps(resp_json, indent=4, default=str))
```

For this tutorial, I would prefer to keep the tutorial without bindings. My main priority is ensuring the content remains beginner-friendly and accessible to newcomers who might be overwhelmed by additional complexity. 

Once users grasp the fundamentals presented in this tutorial, they'll be better positioned to explore more advanced concepts like bindings in the upcoming tutorial in this series.

What's your take on this? Do you think bindings are essential even for beginners in this context?

Specifically for the image generation endpoint, you mentioned that it returns a response in the following format:

```json
{
	"result": {
		"image": "/9j/4AAQSkZJRgABAQAA…"
	},
	"success": true,
	"errors": [],
	"messages": []
}
```

As highlighted, the key element here is the "image" field within the "result" object. This field contains a base64-encoded string representing the generated image. To visualize this image, you will need to use a base64 decoder tool. Many such tools are available online.

After you have thoroughly tested both the text and image generation functionalities in your local environment and confirmed they are working as intended, the next step is to prepare for deployment.

To deploy your FastAPI Workers application to Cloudflare, you will first need to push your complete project code to a GitHub repository. This repository will be the source from which Cloudflare will build and deploy your application to Workers.

> ## 4. Deploy the FastAPI workers on Cloudflare

Author: Fixed
